1. 請你簡短的自我介紹
Tell me about yourself.

Hello, my name is Michael.
I began my career in retail management, but 3 years ago,
I took a course to become a front-end software engineer.

I’ve always been interested and skilled at creating something from scratch.
My experience successfully helped me with organizing my thoughts logically,
and I’ve been building a career as a front-end software engineer ever since.

2. 你遇過哪些困難或挑戰？
What challenges have you faced? How did you handle them?


你是怎麼面對的？
面試時，面試官會利用這個問題，來考驗你的邏輯。


要讓面試官知道你能發現問題、設計解決方案、提出完善計畫。
範例 ：

In my previous job, I noticed that there is an anomaly in the performance of our website.
I quickly realized that it was due to a CTA link misplacement.
I came up with two solutions:
completely remove the CTA or use a redirection landing page to be able to continue tracking website traffic.
After discussion with the team, we decided to go with the second option, which results in a 15% increase in website traffic in the end.

After this incident, I suggested my manager to implement a two-step QA process.
Since then, we have never seen any problems like that again.

3. 你的優缺點是什麼？
What are your strengths and weaknesses?

優缺點的面試問題也是公司非常看重的地方，
而面試官之所以會問「 優缺點 」的原因，
是他們要知道公司是否能從你身上獲得他們所需要的，
以及公司未來可能會要輔助你哪方面的需求。
範例：


I believe leadership is my one of my top strengths.
During my time as a front-end software team lead,
I successfully merged two teams, constructed and conducted a training session for the team members,
making sure everyone is confident with the new role their were heading into.

The new team bought great success in the first month, bringing engagement rate for the for our website up by 5%.

My weakness is that I am an idealist. Every time I complete a project, I tend to think that it could be better.
Although it already received a lot of complements.

For this reason, I overwork myself quite a lot, and feels tired from time to time.
I have started to fix this problem by receiving assistance from my team members,
I have already made good progress, and will continue to do so.

4. 你的職涯目標是什麼？
What are your career goals? Where do you see yourself in 1/3/5 years?

你認為一/三/五年後的自己會在做什麼？
人才未來的規劃會影響公司的結構。
雖然求職者在這一題給出的答案，跟他本身的工作能力沒有太大的關係，
但是跟他在公司未來成長上，以及能不能成為公司的梁柱有莫大的關係。
面試官會希望了解求職者對職涯想法，以此確認在這份工作的長期發展上，這位求職者適不適合。

The career plan that I set for the coming year, as a front-end engineer,
is to continue to follow the trend and future direction of the technology era,
developing innovative and efficient ways to solve problems.

And be able to use my positive, active, and beginner’s mindset to integrate into the company culture.

In addition, no matter where I end up,
I plan to understand the core of being in a team, and become a good partner who is willing to listen and communicate,
as to find the most efficient way of cooperation.

Finally, I plan to pick up a front-end related skill or tool every quarter this year,
to accumulate experience and take more management responsibilities, in the hope to become a great supervisor in the future.

5. 你為什麼離開上一份工作？
Why did you leave your last job?

在這個競爭的時代，
人才的技術、能力、經驗都很好，企業在徵才時，反而更重視文化了，所以人資在注意的是，
你有沒有跟公司一樣的文化，進公司後會不會做的開心，所以才會想要了解你離開前公司的主要原因是什麼。

First of all,
my former company’s management believes that the success of operations are based on effectiveness, which I absolutely agree with.
However, from a cultural perspective, to maintain a certain level of effectiveness,
I think it should be based on the happiness of the employees. So made a difficult decision to leave the company to go on a search this kind of environment. From your company’s culture, I can see that this is also something you care about very much, that’s why I was very eager to meet with you.

6. 目前為止你最滿意的工作成就？
What is your biggest achievement during your career?

很多時候，求職者遇到這一題時，
可能會需要想很久，害怕經驗不夠吸引面試官，又或著是單純想不到。企業想要聽你講這一題，
除了想了解你的成就以外，還想考驗你敘述一件事情的能力。

In my former company, there was an opportunity to speak for a presentation,
on the construction of the logic behind our website, for the entire company and VIP customers, in a 3-hour seminar.
I fought for and got the opportunity to represent the front-end engineering department.

I had to prepare for a 45-minute presentation.
At that time, my task was not only to investigate the e-commerce market,
but also to condense a large amount of information in just 35 minutes, because I was asked to reserve 10 minutes for questions and answers.

I believed that it was a good opportunity for the audience to think outside the framework,
so I planned for the audience to participate in the presentation:
audience interaction, interesting photos and videos, and accurate data.

To let the audience fully understand my point of view,
I chose a creative format, which turned the audience into a part of my presentation, maximizing the interaction.

My department received great feedback and evaluation,
and were invited by our VIP customers to give another presentation at their coming annual conference.

In addition, the presentation was also written into a report for the company’s reference.
This is definitely one of my greatest achievements.

7. 你在工作以外的興趣是什麼？
What are your personal interests/hobbies outside of work?

判斷一個人是否合適一個職缺，
除了工作職能之外，求職者的人格特質亦是相當關鍵的評估點。
面試問題「你的興趣是什麼？」並非單純想要與求職者聊天，而是希望可以透過面試者的答案，瞭解他的性格與價值觀。

One of my hobbies is jogging.
It is something that I do 3-4 times a week.
When I’m jogging, I have clear goal to reach, and for that reason, my mind becomes extra clear.
Some of my best work-related ideas actually came to me when I was jogging.

I believe my hobby will help me as a front-end software engineer because on a day-to-day basis,
I have to face many complex situations. With a clear mind, I will be able to construct efficient ways to resolve issues.


8. 為什麼想來我們公司？
Why did you want to join our company?

這一題，很多時候是由老闆親自發問，尤其是在新創公司。
為這一題的原因是有兩個，
1. 他們想要知道，你能不能成為願意跟公司一起奮鬥的一員。
2. 他們想要知道，你對公司了解到什麼程度。


The reason why I want to join you is for your touching and admirable mission and culture.

I have personally experienced the pain-point that you mentioned during our conversation.
It was really a difficult time, I faced the same thing in my two previous job.
I wish to completely eliminate this problem for all the job seekers.

The cultures and mission at your company fits the description with my personal attitude.
I believe your company is heading to the right direction, and will soon bring great success in this matter.
This is also why I would love to be part of the contribution.


9. 你對加班有什麼想法？
What do you think about overtime?

相信大家對這個面試問題並不陌生，但當這個問題從面試官口中講出時，內心不免一陣尷尬與掙扎。
當然每個人對加班的感受，以及意願度都不一樣，所以回答時要考慮到自己心裡真正的感受。


I think it’s a good thing to be able to work wholeheartedly.
I am also the kind of people that continue to strike for improvement and creating values.
However, regarding overtime, I hope to understand the company’s overtime status and the reasons for overtime.

10. 你有什麼想問我們的問題嗎？
Do you have any questions for us?

職場上有各式各樣的人，每個人所追求的職涯也都不一樣，有的人想要薪水高，
有的人想要工作與生活平衡，有的人想要不斷地嘗試各種的工作，而在不同的職涯階段，許多事情都有可能再次改變！
所以想要了解公司，就要問問題，但是有些問題可以問，而有些不能。


Yes, I have a couple questions for you:
1. In order to fully understand where the company stands, could you please elaborate on the company’s culture, which we talked about earlier?
2. What kind of people are your employees? Are there any key qualities that all of them possessed?
