1. 請你簡短的自我介紹
Tell me about yourself.

Hello, my name is Frank,
graduated from National Taiwan University, Master of Engineering of Civil Engineering.

I touch programming begin from University, then later in my Master-semester,
and my thesis is finished by Fortran. "the old programing"

I began my career in Java Web Developer, but 2 years later,
I took a course to become Android engineer.

I've always been interested and skilled at learning something new creative-technology, which about block-chain, machine-learning,
and something I am curious in. (economics)
so, in order to explore something cool, I've been participated in hackathon, offline workshop, online book-club.

My experience successfully helped me with organizing my thoughts logically,
and I’ve been building a career as a full-stack software developer ever since.

*. 為什麼要轉職
My big brother has own a glasses-accessories store in Taipei,
and there is a pain-point in the situation of managing customer data, which is stored by paper-work.

So, as his dearest little brother, I want to figure him out the way to solve this problem, and then, I've established a Web-Site for him,
and I took this project to be my show-up-work in my First Software company.

Very fortunately, I got the opportunity to be part of them, and start my IT Career.


** 介紹一下你著手過的專案

Recently, I was in charge of Inspection - SaaS in Retail industry, I am heading in back-end developer.
and in fact, I was lead a 5 member-team including web and app position.

In this project, we use Spring-boot as back-end and Vue.Js as frontEnd, and React-Native in App side.

In previously, the project, which was maintained by Xian in China.
it was transfer to us in 2021, and we bought improving execution in efficiency of program by 70%, and increasing stability and readable of codebase.

In order to the scenarios of COVID-19, we developed mask-detect engine which is using SeetaFace6 and face-detection by CyberLink, then porting into android edge devices which made by Advantech.
in this project, we use golang as back-end, and Vue.js as front-end, Android tablet as edge device.



2. 你遇過哪些困難或挑戰？
What challenges have you faced? How did you handle them?

In event previously, Advantech world-wide summit, and there was a chance to cooperate with SoftBank,
which provided their production "Pepper", the ai robot.
the Task is to control Pepper guiding people to visit the exhibition hall, and do particular-actions with different scenarios.

during this develop stage, we encountered the Pepper SDK issues, which was needed supports by SoftBand.

because of SDK version is a little older and the way to debug Pepper device is much implicit, it had cost lots of
efforts to figure out the appropriate way to achieve the mission target.



3. 你的優缺點是什麼？
What are your strengths and weaknesses?

I believe leadership is the most obviously one.
During my time as a back-end software team leader,

I successfully merged two teams, constructed and conducted a training session for the team members,
making sure everyone is confident with the new role, which they were heading into.

The new team bought great performance in the first Season,
decreasing api-request flow rate than previous team by 25%, and build unit-Test process, code-coverage is 45% in front-end, 38% at back-end.


My weakness is that I am an idealist.
Every time I complete a project, I tend to think that it could be better.
Although it already received a lot of complements.

For this reason, I overwork myself quite a lot, and feels tired from time to time.
I have started to fix this problem by receiving assistance from my team members


4. 你的職涯目標是什麼？
What are your career goals? Where do you see yourself in 1/3/5 years?


The career plan that I set for the coming year, as a software Architecture,
and to continue to follow the trend and future direction of the technology era,
developing innovative and efficient ways to solve problems.

And be able to use my positive, active, and beginner’s mindset to integrate into the company culture.

In addition,
I plan to core of being by the team, and become a good partner willing to listen and communicate.

the last but not the least, I plan to pick up a managing related skill next year,
to accumulate experience and take more management responsibilities, in the hope to become a great supervisor in the future.


5. 你為什麼離開上一份工作？
Why did you leave your last job?

First of all,
my company’s management believes that the success of operations are based on effectiveness, which I absolutely agree with.
However, from a cultural perspective, to maintain a certain level of effectiveness,
I think it should be based on the happiness of the employees.

So made a difficult decision to leave the company to go on searching this kind of environment.

From Trend's culture, I would like to believe, this is also you care about very much, that’s why I was very eager to meet with you.



7. 你在工作以外的興趣是什麼？
What are your personal interests/hobbies outside of work?

One of my hobbies is biking.
It is something that I do 3-4 times a week.

When I'm biking, I have a clear goal to reach, and for that reason, my mind becomes extra clear and feel really relaxed.

I believe my hobby will help me as a software developer, because on a day-to-day basis,
I have to face many complex situations.
With a clear mind, I will be able to find efficient ways to resolve issues.


8. 為什麼想來我們公司？
Why did you want to join our company?


The reason why I want to join you is for your touching, admirable mission and especially company culture.
I have personally experienced the pain-point that I mentioned before.

The cultures and mission at your company fits the description with my personal attitude.
"Be innovative, be passionate, be a Trender".
This is also why I would love to be part of the contribution.


9. 你對加班有什麼想法？
What do you think about overtime?

I think it’s a good thing to be able to work whole-heartedly.
I am the kind of people that continue to strike for improvement and creating values.
However, regarding overtime, I hope to deeply understand the company’s overtime status and the reasons for overtime.


10. 你有什麼想問我們的問題嗎？
Do you have any questions for us?